- Software development is a deep space
that can get complicated really quickly.
Especially when starting out,
it's easy to get off track and feel discouraged,
like you're not making any progress.
Having a detailed learning plan will help you avoid that
and keep you on the right track to achieve your goals.
A good plan defines and schedules each step
in your progression
towards completing one of your short-term goals,
almost like a teacher's lesson plan.
To build a plan,
start out by assessing what resources you have available.
The most important of those resources is time.
So, you'll first need to determine how many hours each week
that you can devote to learning how to code.
Initially, I'd recommend carving out between 10 and 15 hours
which gives you 1 1/2 to two hours each day for learning.
But it has to fit your schedule.
Make sure it's a realistic estimate
that accounts for other commitments in your life
like school or work.
Next, you'll want to take a look at what you already know
and what resources you can use to support your learning.
If you've studied a technology before,
decide whether you need to visit it
or if your current knowledge of the topic is sufficient.
That doesn't mean you have to have every detail memorized.
It's more like if you had to work with it again,
would you understand the major concepts
and be able to quickly find other information you might need
to complete your work?
That last point is really important to understand.
So, I'll let you in on a little secret.
I've built many systems for large enterprises
and taught over 20 technology courses,
and I've never once memorized
every last bit of a particular technology.
In fact, I don't want to
because technology changes all the time.
I'm still a very effective technologist
and here's how.
I've built an understanding
of what certain technologies are used for
and the key concepts for working with them,
many of which apply across multiple technologies.
Then in my mind,
I've created a map of those technologies
and the resources I can use
to get the specific details I need when I need them.
That's why a development plan is so important at this point.
It's helping you understand those key concepts
and build that map of resources you'll go to
when you need the finer details.
There are a lot of learning materials available
to help you build that map
and understand those key technical concepts.
But the two most important factors to consider
are your learning style and the quality of the materials.
You need to find resources that speak to you.
So if you're primarily a hands-on learner,
you'll want to try labs or an online course
with lots of step-by-step instructions
that you can follow along with.
If you're more visual,
try to find a course or a book
that uses lots of diagrams to explain different concepts.
Whatever you choose,
don't waste your time with something that isn't working.
Everyone might think a certain and course is great.
But if it doesn't resonate with you,
it's better for you to find something that does.
Once you've assessed your resources,
you can build out a schedule
that identifies the specific steps you'll take
to learn a new topic,
when you'll take them,
and the resources you'll use.
When building the schedule,
it helps to divide your time into three categories:
research, practice and application.
Allocate about 20% of your time to research.
Things like reading a book or watching courses
that explain the major concepts
or skills you'll need to know.
Then spend about 30% of your time
just practicing those new skills.
It's kind of like running drills
when you're training for a sport.
The idea is to practice and repeat what you've researched
by writing small snippets of code
that experiment with the different aspects
of a new technology that you're learning.
Dedicate the remaining 50% of your time
towards building out a working project.
Something practical that you can show to others.
This gives you a safe learning environment
where you'll exercise and apply what you've learned.
So, here's what you might come up with for a plan
to learn the basics of HTML.
Notice how it carves out a routine time with learning goals,
specific resources and activities.
Once you've built your goals and a development plan,
you can reuse the same framework
every time you learn a new technology.
It's your own custom process that works for you.
The key is to trust your process and stick with it.
It can be frustrating to learn a new language.
But just keep in mind
that it's part of the journey when learning new skills.